	Government
-----------------------------


Today, most countries are governed by core documents that give rise to the rest of their laws.  This basic charter, or constitution, lays out the organization of the government and how the country will operate. Our first charter—the Articles of Confederation—was replaced by the Constitution of the United States. By word count, the Constitution is the shortest written constitution in use today.  It is over 4,500 words in length.The Constitution was signed on 17 September 1787 by thirty-nine delegates from twelve states.
The Constitution is the:
    - Supreme law of the land
    - Rule book that governs our nation


The goals for writing the Constitution are described in its short introduction—the Preamble.  The goals of the Constitution are to:
    - Form a more perfect union.
    - Establish justice.
    - Insure domestic tranquility.
    - Provide for the common defense.
    - Promote the general welfare.
    - Secure liberty for current and future generations
The Constitution guarantees a republican form of government.  A republican form of government generally means that the people can choose representatives who will govern them, rather than having a monarch who inherited the right to rule. Our form of government can also be called a representative democracy since our government consists of people we elect, plus individuals appointed by the representatives we elect. The basic components of the Constitution include the preamble, seven articles, and amendments.


 The preamble is a short introduction to the Constitution.  The preamble—the first 52 words of the Constitution—sets forth six reasons or goals for writing the Constitution.  The preamble is the most important part of the Constitution since it limits and guides the rest of the document.  The preamble reads as follows:
"We the People of the United States, in Order to form a more perfect Union, establish Justice, insure domestic Tranquility, provide for the common defence, promote the general Welfare, and secure the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity, do ordain and establish this Constitution for the United States of America."


 Article I provides the organization, and powers of the legislative branch.  This article is made up of ten sections.  Excerpts from two of the sections follow.  
    Section 1 of Article I reads: "All legislative Powers herein granted shall be vested in a Congress of the United States, which shall consist of a Senate and House of Representatives."
    Section 8 of Article I outlines numerous powers of the legislative branch. Three of the powers follow.  
"The Congress shall have power To lay and collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts and Excises, to pay the Debts and provide for the common Defence and general Welfare of the United States; ...
To borrow money on the credit of the United States; ...
To make all Laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into Execution the foregoing Powers, and all other Powers vested by this Constitution in the Government of the United States, or in any Department or Officer thereof."


 Article II provides the organization, powers, and responsibilities of the executive branch.  This Article is made up of four sections.  Section 1 of Article II reads in part: "The executive Power shall be vested in a President of the United States of America."  
    Head of State: The President is the head of state and is in charge of executing and enforcing the laws written by Congress.  
    Commander in Chief: The President is the Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces. The fact that the President, a civilian elected by the people, is Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces means that in the United States, the military is under civilian control.


 Article III provides the basic responsibilities of the judicial branch.  Article III—one of the shortest in the Constitution—outlines, in very broad terms, what those who hold the power of the judiciary are tasked with doing.  The framers wanted this third branch to be independent and a strong check to balance the other two branches.  
    The standard explanation is that the Congress makes the laws, the President enforces them, and the courts interpret them.  The only court that the Constitution actually mandates is the Supreme Court.  
    This article is made up of three sections.  Section 1 of Article III reads as follows:
"The judicial Power of the United States, shall be vested in one supreme Court, and in such inferior Courts as the Congress may from time to time ordain and establish. The Judges, both of the supreme and inferior Courts, shall hold their Offices during good Behavior, and shall, at stated Times, receive for their Services a Compensation which shall not be diminished during their Continuance in Office."



Article IV discusses how the Constitution applies to the relationship of the states to each other, and the way they have to treat the citizens of other states.  Section 1 reads:
"Full Faith and Credit shall be given in each State to the public Acts, Records, and judicial Proceedings of every other State. And the Congress may by general Laws prescribe the Manner in which such Acts, Records and Proceedings shall be proved, and the Effect thereof."
The original section 2 was superseded by the 13th Amendment.  Section 3 talks about admitting new states.  Section 4 guarantees a republican form of government and reads:
"The United States shall guarantee to every State in this Union a Republican Form of Government, and shall protect each of them against Invasion; and on Application of the Legislature, or of the Executive (when the Legislature cannot be convened) against domestic Violence."


 Article V describes how to amend the Constitution.  Amending the Constitution is much more difficult than passing laws.  The Congress, whenever two-thirds of both Houses deem it necessary to change the Constitution, will propose amendments to the Constitution, or, on the application of the legislatures of two-thirds of the states, will call a convention for proposing amendments.  Finally, the proposed amendments will only become part of the Constitution if ratified by the legislatures of three-fourths of the states.  
    To date, there have been over 3000 proposed amendments to the Constitution but only 27 amendments have been approved and ratified.  
    To illustrate the difficulty of amending the Constitution, the 27th Amendment was actually proposed in 1789 with the first 12 proposed amendments to the Constitution, but it was not approved by the requisite three fourths of the states for two hundred and three years and became the 27th Amendment when it was finally ratified in 1992.


 The second paragraph of Article VI may be the most important one in the entire Constitution (with the possible exception of the Preamble).  This paragraph spells out what the Constitution's position is relative to other laws that may exist or come to exist in the United States and is known as the supremacy clause.  From this clause, it is clear that "This Constitution, and the laws of the United States which shall be made in pursuance thereof... shall be the supreme law of the land."  Consequently, all laws and treaties that are created under its authority are, by their association, also the supreme law of the land.  It reads:
"This Constitution, and the Laws of the United States which shall be made in Pursuance thereof; and all Treaties made, or which shall be made, under the Authority of the United States, shall be the supreme Law of the Land; and the Judges in every State shall be bound thereby, any Thing in the Constitution or Laws of any State to the Contrary notwithstanding."


 Article VII sets the rules for ratification of the U.S. Constitution. Ratification by only nine states was required to establish the Constitution. Eventually, conventions in all thirteen states ratified the Constitution.  It reads:
"The Ratification of the Conventions of nine States, shall be sufficient for the Establishment of this Constitution between the States so ratifying the Same."


Changes to the Constitution are called amendments.  It was decided that the original Constitution should remain intact, and the amendments should be added to the end.  This means that some language in the Constitution is no longer valid or has been modified by amendments.  To date, there have been 27 amendments.


The states insisted that the Constitution protect their individual rights before they agreed to its terms, aiming to prevent the federal government from abusing its power.  Consequently, the first ten amendments to the Constitution define these individual rights; they are known as the Bill of Rights. 


The Constitution divides our government into three branches: Legislative Branch, Executive Branch, and Judicial Branch. 


Amendment 1. Freedoms of speech, press, religion, and right to assemble
Amendment 2. Right to bear arms
Amendment 3. Quartering of soldiers in private homes
Amendment 4. Security from unwarranted searches and seizures
Amendment 5. Rights of those accused of crimes
Amendment 6. Right to speedy trial, confrontation of witnesses
Amendment 7. Trial by jury in civil lawsuits
Amendment 8. Protection against cruel and unusual punishments
Amendment 9. Rights in the Bill of Rights is not exclusive; there are others that are not listed
Amendment 10. Powers of the states and people 
Amendment 11. Lawsuits by an individual against a state
Amendment 12. Electing the President and Vice President
Amendment 13. Slavery abolished
Amendment 14. Right to due process of law and equal protection of the laws
Amendment 15. Right to vote shall not be denied on account of race
Amendment 16. Congress has the power to lay and collect tax on incomes
Amendment 17. Election of senators by the people and sets the term to six years
Amendment 18. Prohibition of the manufacture, sale, or transportation of liquor
Amendment 19. Right to vote shall not be denied on account of sex (Women's Suffrage)
Amendment 20. Sets the presidential inauguration date and Congress' first session date 
Amendment 21. Repealed Amendment 18 (Ended Prohibition)
Amendment 22. Set two-term limit for the President
Amendment 23. Authorized Congress to form what would become the District of Columbia
Amendment 24. Right to vote shall not be denied by reason of failure to pay poll tax
Amendment 25. Set plan for President's disability and succession
Amendment 26. Right to vote shall not be denied to those who are 18 years of age
Amendment 27. Limitations on Congressional pay increases 


Another way of looking at the government is by its division of powers.  The powers of the government are divided between the three branches in such a way that no one branch can become more powerful than the others.  This separation of powers keeps the three branches independent of one another, maintaining balance and providing checks to each branch. This system of checks and balances protects us against a dictatorship. 


Federal law (Title 10, Section 502 of U.S. Code) requires everyone who enlists or re-enlists in the Armed Forces of the United States to take the enlistment oath.
The purpose of the oath of enlistment is to acknowledge a duty bound allegiance to the Constitution and swear that you will obey the orders of the President and the officers appointed over you. Taking the oath is the pivotal factor which changes your status from that of civilian to that of Marine. 


 The oath of enlistment is administered by a commissioned officer who will ask the person to raise their right hand and repeat the oath.  The oath is administered during the enlistment process and whenever a Marine re-enlists.
The oath that accompanies an enlistment, re-enlistment, or a promotion should not be taken lightly.  When a Marine swears "to support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and domestic," what they are actually doing is pledging their means, their talents, and their very life, to their country.
Just like the oath's pledge, the motto of the Corps—Semper Fidelis—reflects a Marine's loyalty to remain always faithful to country, Corps, unit, and to their fellow Marines. 


While the words are simple, when Marines take the oath of enlistment, they should know what the words mean.
Marines should read the Constitution so they understand their obligation to support and defend it. \


Why does someone enlist or re-enlist in the Corps?  They might feel a need to answer the nation's call to arms or feel that the welfare of others is more important than their own.  Pledging "Service before self" means agreeing to protect the lives and values of the following:
Fellow Marines
Family
The country
Our Corps


Today, as in the past, some men and women are drawn to the Corps by a common calling—a desire to serve, and a sense of duty born in ideals like patriotism, valor, and fidelity.  When you answer the nation's call by enlisting in the Marine Corps, you are demonstrating patriotism, which means having love and respect for, and devotion to, your country.


	JEPES
----------------------


The Junior Enlisted Performance Evaluation System (JEPES) is the means by which Marines in the grades private through corporal are evaluated and recommended for promotion to the next higher grade. JEPES replaces the legacy Proficiency and Conduct system.  JEPES is available within the Performance tab of Marine Online (MOL).
The fundamental concepts of JEPES are transparency, accessibility, accuracy, consistency of evaluation metrics across the total force, and efficient processing. This requires standardization of evaluation procedures, the discipline to follow them, supervision throughout the system, and the education of all participants.

 
Marine Corps Order (MCO) 1616.1 publishes the policies, procedures, and administrative instructions for the operation and management of the JEPES. 
The purpose of the JEPES is to create transparency and standardization in junior enlisted performance evaluations, uphold Marine Corps values, and optimize the promotion of the highest quality Marines.  
The objectives of the system include accurate and standardized assessment, preventing score inflation, and timely completion. 


The evaluation must:
Reflect an assessment of tangible results achieved over the reporting period by presenting current objective scores reported in the Marine Corps Total Force System (MCTFS).
Allow the chain of command to provide input that utilizes well-understood metrics that complete the whole picture of the Marine's performance and effectively aids the promotion process. Important note: Per Marine Corps Order 1616.1, the entire reporting chain must use the JEPES Command Input Evaluation Metrics when recommending command input marks or approving final marks. 


Countering inflation begins with the chain of command properly utilizing the JEPES Command Input Evaluation Metrics and accurately reporting the Marine's performance.
The design of the JEPES Worksheet limits the ability of the chain of command to unjustifiably inflate promotion scores.  This check and balance is accomplished by weighting command input equally with each of the other pillars of JEPES, while maintaining the commander's ability to "not recommend" a Marine for promotion.  
Command input must be based on the Marine's accomplishments utilizing the JEPES Command Input Evaluation Metrics during the reporting period.  Inflating command input marks does a disservice to the individual Marine and the institution by interfering with the promotion of the best, most qualified Marines and portraying an inaccurate record of the Marine's service.


JEPES reporting occasions must be completed and approved by the end of the reporting period in order to ensure timely and accurate evaluations.  The reporting chain may begin forwarding recommended command input marks 45 days prior to the end of the reporting period. Occasions not approved by the end of the reporting period are considered delinquent.


The completed JEPES worksheet is accessed via the Marine Reported On (MRO) Dashboard within the JEPES. The JEPES worksheet has two purposes:  
To project a Marine's current objective scores (rifle, MCMAP, PFT, CFT, informal PME, self-education) and how they compare to peers of the same rank and military occupational specialty (MOS).  
To provide a means by which the performance and promotion recommendations of privates through corporals are captured and evaluated by the chain of command during a reporting period.  
The JEPES worksheet is not a counseling document for the Marine; however, the quantifiable information in it can be used to during counseling sessions.  Refer to NAVMC 2795, USMC User's Guide to Counseling, for guidance on conducting counseling sessions.


The PES score is comprised of four equally weighted pillars each worth 25 percent of the score.  Additionally, bonus points are available for special duty assignments and command recruiting.



Warfighting (25 percent)
Consists of MRO's:
    - Current Rifle score percentile against peers of the same rank
    - Current Marine Corps Martial Arts Program belt
Each is worth 12.5 percent of the PES score.


Physical Toughness (25 percent)
Consists of the MRO's:
    - Current Physical Fitness Test score percentile against peers of the same rank
    - Current Combat Fitness Test score percentile against peers of the same rank
Each is worth 12.5 percent of the PES score.


Mental Agility (25 percent)
Consists of an MRO's:
Informal PME (MarineNet) in grade, find the point value of a course in MarineNet by selecting Self-paced Courses and Continuing Education Units for a list of eligible courses and their CEU values, see MarAdmin 025/21 for more info. The total maximum value is 100.
Civilian self-education College degrees [Bachelor degree (40), Associate degree (20)] for a maximum of 40.  Each college or vocational course is worth 10 with a maximum value of 30 for in service and 30 for in grade.
Each is worth 12.5 percent of the PES score. 


Command Input (25 percent)
Consists of the average marks in grade of three lines of subjective evaluation (each worth 8.3%):
    Individual Character
    MOS Proficiency and Mission Accomplishment
    Leadership
This is the command's chance to highlight superior or inferior MOS proficiency, acts of personal integrity, and leadership.  
Note: Marines may be eligible for Special Duty Assignment or Command Recruiting Bonus bonus points which are added to the total PES score. 


 Marines who meet the time in grade (TIG) and time in service (TIS) requirements for promotion to corporal or sergeant will compete for promotion on a monthly basis.  Every month, eligible Marines will receive a calculated PES score based on data effective prior to the last day of the previous month to compete for available MOS vacancies for the following month's promotions.  Marines who do not meet the TIG and TIS requirements will receive a "projected PES score."  

 
A Marine who is not recommended for promotion by their command, remains in the "NOT REC" status either until the next reporting occasion, or when lifted by the commander.  The "NOT REC" makes the MRO ineligible for promotion.  Also, Marines in a promotion restriction category per MCO P1400.32D will not be promoted.
If needed, the linked instructions document describes how to manually calculate a PES score.


The Promotion to corporal and sergeant is based on overall performance competition among Marines of the same grade and MOS.  The PES score indicates the overall performance of lance corporals and corporals.  
The Marine Corps automatically calculates PES scores for Marines who are eligible for promotion and on a monthly basis publishes a cutting score by MOS for promotions to corporal and sergeant.  The cutting score is used to control the number of promotions based on the Corps' need for corporals and sergeants.
Scores Can Go Up or Down
A Marine's PES score may go up if they improve on an objective score (e.g., PFT) or may go down if they do poorly on these events.   
As the Marine Corps needs more corporals or sergeants in an MOS, the cutting score for that MOS may go up or down depending on the PES scores of promotion-eligible lance corporals and corporals in that MOS.  The cutting score for an MOS fluctuates to match the number of promotions needed to fill current corporal and sergeant vacancies in that MOS. 


The Marine Reported On, or MRO, is the subject of the JEPES Worksheet. The MRO's responsibilities include:
    Possess a clear understanding of the concepts of the JEPES
    Possess a clear understanding of his or her role in accomplishing the unit's mission and expectations of the chain of command
    Ensure all objective scores (rifle, MCMAP, PFT, CFT, informal PME, and self-education) are accurate
Although not required, the MRO is encouraged to submit his or her accomplishments for the reporting period into JEPES.


The JEPES reporting chain personnel are to provide the MRO with an understanding of his or her role in the unit, responsibilities, and performance expectations, and provide accurate recommendations on the MRO's command input marks and fitness for promotion.  
None of the reporting chain roles have a required rank or billet. 


 The FLS is a leader who has direct supervision over the MRO and is charged with providing thorough and accurate observation and guidance. The FLS is the first person in the MRO's reporting chain to provide recommended command input markings and comments.  As an example, the FLS could be the MRO's team leader, squad leader, or section leader.


The FLS shall:
Provide the MRO an initial written counseling within 30 days of the relationship being established, defining the MRO's billet description, role in the unit, responsibilities, and performance expectations.
Review the MRO's objective scores in order to ensure accuracy.  This includes ensuring that the appropriate waiver is reported in the Marine Corps Total Force Sysem (MCTFS) for Marines who rate exemptions (medical, combat, unit waiver) for Rifle, PFT, and CFT, bringing forward a previous score for calculation.
Provide recommended subjective command input marks and comments as required in JEPES.


The Evaluator is a leader who has direct supervision over the FLS and responsibility for the MRO.  The Evaluator also provides recommended command input marks and comments.  Typically, this role is filled by platoon-level leadership.  As an example, the Evaluator could be the MRO's platoon commander, OIC, or SNCOIC.

 
The Evaluator shall:
Ensure the FLS is performing his or her responsibilities in JEPES.
Provide recommended subjective command input marks and comments as required in JEPES.


The SER is an enlisted leader (E6 or above) who reviews JEPES worksheets and command input marks for accuracy at the platoon and company levels. The SER serves in an advisory role and provides the FLS, Evaluator, and Reviewer comments and recommendations, however, does not have the ability to submit draft marks, return reports, or stop the flow of the evaluation through the reporting chain. A SER could be the platoon sergeant, first sergeant, or any SNCO in the unit.
The SER shall:
    Review JEPES worksheets for accuracy.
    Provide comments to members of the reporting chain.
    The SER does not make recommended command input marks.  The SER review is encouraged but not required for JEPES worksheet processing.


The Reviewer is a leader who has direct supervision over the Evaluator and responsibility for the MRO, typically at the company level.  As an example, the Reviewer could be a company commander or first sergeant, officer in charge, department head, or staff chief.  The Reviewer is the last member of the reporting chain to provide recommended subjective marks before the Approver.
The Reviewer shall:
    Ensure the FLS and Evaluator are performing their responsibilities in JEPES.
    Provide recommended subjective command marks and comments as required in JEPES.


The Command Reviewer is an enlisted leader appointed by the Approver (O-5 level commander or OIC equivalent) who reviews JEPES worksheets and command input marks for accuracy at the battalion or squadron level. The Command Reviewer could be the command sergeant major or any SNCO in the unit.
The Command Reviewer shall provide the Reviewer and Approver comments and recommendations.
The Command Reviewer does not have the ability to submit draft marks, return reports, or stop the flow of the evaluation through the reporting chain.


 The Approver is the O-5 level commander or OIC equivalent in the MRO's chain of command who is responsible for setting and approving final command input marks, thereby certifying the JEPES worksheet for inclusion in the promotion process.  The Approver must ensure reporting officials uphold JEPES policy and protect against inflation.  The Approver is ultimately responsible for the accuracy of JEPES worksheets and the integrity of the system.
The Approver shall:
    Ensure an MRO's command input marks are accurate and made in accordance with MCO 1616.1.
    Input "not recommended for promotion" as required with every reporting occasion if appropriate.
    Meet the timelines set forth in MCO 1616.1 for approving JEPES worksheets.
    Ensure all Marines have a reporting chain and are receiving performance evaluations.
    Ensure all reporting chain members are fulfilling their responsibilities.


The performance evaluation cycle begins when the MRO checks into a new unit. The MRO is assigned a reporting chain appropriate to the unit type by the battalion and company administrative chiefs. The reporting chain must include an Approver and at least one other reporting chain member.


Once the reporting chain is established, the First Line Supervisor or first leader in the MRO's reporting chain will conduct an initial written counseling within 30 days with the MRO and establish billet expectations.  At this point the MRO and First Line Supervisor will validate objective scores and initiate any corrective action.


Known reporting occasions (annual, semi-annual, and planned transfers) will initiate automated JEPES notifications to the chain of command to take action and conduct an evaluation no earlier than 45 days prior to the end of the reporting period.  The MRO will review objective scores again, take any corrective actions, and can provide the First Line Supervisor with billet accomplishments throughout the reporting period up until the reporting occasion is routed.  The First Line Supervisor may view and make draft command input marks on the MRO's JEPES worksheet throughout the reporting period, but may not submit recommended marks to the next higher level of the reporting chain any earlier than 45 days prior to the end of the reporting period for the occasion.


The First Line Supervisor will select draft marks for the command input attributes, provide a promotion recommendation as necessary, select comments as required, and submit to a Senior Enlisted Reviewer (optional) and the Evaluator. The Evaluator and Reviewer will follow the same evaluation process until the JEPES worksheet reaches the Approver.
To evaluate a Marine on a JEPES worksheet, a reporting chain member must have a minimum of 30 days of observation time of the MRO.


The Approver will review draft marks and promotion recommendation from the chain of command, any comments from the Command Reviewer, and provide comments as required.  The Approver will then concur or not concur with the promotion recommendation and approve the final command input marks


After the command input marks are final, the evaluation cycle ends when the MRO receives a debriefing from the First Line Supervisor or another reporting chain member.  Although this debriefing is focused on past performance during the reporting period, it should also inform areas to focus on during future performance.


All Marines fall under the JEPES for performance evaluation from the time they enter recruit training until they attain the rank of sergeant.  The reporting period of an occasion includes the "From" date through the "To" date.  If the "From" date of a report is the day following the last day of the MRO's previous occasion, this ensures there are no gaps in a Marine's record.  If two or more reporting occasions occur simultaneously, the higher occasion on the below list will be used.


The reporting chain members must reasonably apply standardized metrics to guide them when making their evaluations of Marines.  Reporting chain members must not use a personal or unit set of precepts or unreasonable expectations, as this would disrupt fair and uniform assessments. Per MCO 1616.1, the entire reporting chain must use the JEPES Command Input Evaluation Metrics when making recommended marks or approving final marks. There is enough flexibility built into the metrics to be able to apply them to any MOS.
As the fourth pillar of JEPES, the purpose of the Command Input is to complete the whole picture of the MRO's performance.  
Command input marks range from 0.0 up to 5.0.  A mark of 0.0 in any category will "NOT REC" the Marine for promotion.  Note that marks in the ranges of 0.0 to 0.9 or 4.1 to 5.0 require a justification comment by the reporting chain member. 


The Marine Corps promotion system provides a process whereby Marines within each grade and MOS compete among themselves for promotion to the next higher grade.
Objectives:
    To maintain the needed strength in each grade and MOS
    To ensure all eligible Marines receive an equitable opportunity to compete for promotion
    To ensure that only the best and fully qualified Marines are promoted
Basic Goal:
    To promote the best qualified Marines who are fully qualified to perform the duties and assume the responsibilities of the next higher grade
Types of Promotion:
    Regular promotion
    Meritorious promotion


Commanders must decide whether a Marine can be expected to assume the responsibilities and perform the duties of the next higher grade in a creditable and satisfactory manner.  For the grades private first class through sergeant, a Marine will not be promoted if, in the commander's opinion, the Marine is not capable of performing satisfactorily in the higher grade, even though all other promotion requirements have been met.
Promotion to PFC:
A private who has served for 6 months on active duty (time in service or TIS), may be promoted to PFC, if the Marine's service has been satisfactory (as determined by the commander).
Promotion to LCPL:
A private first class who has 8 months time-in-grade (TIG) and 9 months time-in-service (TIS) and who is otherwise qualified for promotion, as determined by the commander, may be promoted to the grade of LCpl.


Per MCO P1400.32, no Marine will be promoted to corporal or sergeant who has not positively demonstrated the potential, motivation, and maturity to satisfactorily discharge the duties of a small-unit leader.  Therefore, the commander's decision on whether or not to promote is even more critical.  Each Marine recommended for promotion must be worthy of the title "noncommissioned officer."
Per MARADMIN 200/16, units will convene a quarterly NCO promotion panel to assess Marines eligible for promotion to corporal or sergeant and make a recommendation to the Commanding Officer on whether to promote them.
Promotion to Cpl:
A LCpl will be eligible for promotion if the Marine has 12 months TIG, 12 months TIS, and has completed the required professional military education (PME).  An eligible LCpl can be promoted if they have a PES score that meets or exceeds the current cutting score for their MOS and if they have been recommended by their commander.
Promotion to Sgt:
A Cpl will be eligible for promotion if the Marine has 12 months TIG, 48 months TIS, and has completed the required professional military education (PME).  An eligible Cpl can be promoted if they have a PES score that meets or exceeds the current cutting score for their MOS and if they have been recommended by their commander. 


Meritorious promotions are intended to promote Marines whose performance is superior to that of their peers or to promote Marines for specific actions or superior achievement.
Minimum time-in-grade requirements are waived in the case of meritorious promotions.  However, minimum time-in-service compliance is mandatory.
Determination of eligibility for meritorious promotion will be based on the Marine's performance as reported in the meritorious recommendation and on the Marine's military record.
Criteria for Meritorious Recommendations - Commanders, in their determination of qualifications for meritorious promotions, will be guided by, but are not limited to, the following:
    Marines must have completed the required PME in grade.
    Marine's performance of duty, in comparison with all known Marines of the same grade, without regard to MOS, must be to a significant degree superior to that of his/her peers.
    Marine must have superior performance on unusual assignments that reflects favorably upon the Marine Corps.
    Marine must not be in a promotion restriction status.


Marines will not be promoted in numerous restriction categories including:
During the evaluation process, or while pending assignment or assigned to the Military Appearance Program or the Body Composition Program
After failure of a physical fitness test (PFT) or combat fitness test (CBT) restriction remains in effect until the Marine passes a PFT/CFT
Within 3 months of nonjudicial punishment


	Social Media
----------------------------


Throughout the Corps' history, people have discussed, debated, and embraced the United States Marine Corps and our Marines.  These discussions continue today through online conversations and social networks.  The Corps recognizes the importance of participating in these conversations.
The Marine Corps benefits when Marines use social media, since Marines are often in the best position to share the Marine Corps' story with the domestic and foreign publics, which the Corps relies on for mission success. 


Social media is best understood as a group of online media, which share most or all of the following characteristics:
Participation - Social media encourages contributions and feedback from everyone who is interested. It blurs the line between media and audience.
Openness - Most social media services are open to feedback and participation. Voting, comments, and sharing are encouraged with few barriers to accessing or making use of content.
Conversation - Whereas traditional media is about broadcasts, social media is better seen as a two-way dialogue.
Community - Social media allows communities to form quickly and communicate effectively; these communities share common interests, such as a love of photography, an environmental issue, or a favorite TV show.
Connectedness - Social media thrives on their connectedness, making use of links to other sites, resources, and people.


Social Networks allow people to build personal web pages and then connect with friends to share content and to communicate.
Some examples of social networks include Facebook, Myspace, and Bebo


Blogs are a well-known form of social media.  They are online journals, with the most recent entries appearing first.  
Examples include Blogger and WordPress. 


Micro-blogs contain small amounts of content (or "updates") that are distributed online and through mobile devices such as cell phones.
Twitter is a prime example. 


Wikis allow people to add or edit content which is contained in what amounts to a communal document or database.
The best-known wiki is Wikipedia, the online free encyclopedia, with over 4 million articles. 


Podcasts, an episodic series of audio, video, portable document format (PDF), or ePub files available by subscription and downloaded or streamed online to a computer or mobile device.  
Some popular podcasts are available on Apple iTunes. 


Forums are online discussion sites where people can hold conversations in the form of posted messages.  Usually forums are created around specific topics or interests. 
An example is the Major League Gaming forum that focus on video games


Content Communities organize and share particular kinds of content.
The most popular content communities tend to form around photos (Flickr), bookmarked links (Delicious), and videos (YouTube). 


People can find information, inspiration, like-minded people, communities, and collaborators faster than ever before.  New ideas, services, business models and technologies emerge and evolve at dizzying speeds in social media.
Whether we are still using Facebook in five or ten years is anyone's guess.  The unique way that the Internet continually improves in response to user experience is driving innovation on an unprecedented scale.  Certainly, there will be exciting new variants on the current forms of social media.


The Marine Corps encourages Marines to explore and engage in social media at a level they feel comfortable with. The best advice is to approach online communication in the same way we communicate in person—by using sound judgment and common sense; adhering to the Marine Corps' core values of honor, courage, and commitment; following established policy; and abiding by the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ).  
You are responsible for your actions.  
Anything you post online that violates a regulation, order, or law, or which can potentially tarnish the Marine Corps' image, is your responsibility.  Don't let a careless mistake or ill thought, comment, or post hamper your career or harm the Corps' image. 


UNOFFICIAL INTERNET POSTS
"Unofficial Internet posts" are considered any content about the Marine Corps or related to the Marine Corps that are posted on any Internet site by Marines in an unofficial and personal capacity.  These unofficial posts are not initiated by any part of the Marine Corps or reviewed within any official Marine Corps approval process.
Marines are encouraged to responsibly engage in unofficial posts about the Marine Corps and Marine Corps-related topics associated with their professional expertise, personal experiences, or personal knowledge.
Marines must also be thoughtful about the non-Marine-related content they post since the lines between Marines' personal and professional lives often blur in the online space.
OFFICIAL INTERNET POSTS
By contrast, official Internet posts involve content released in an official capacity by public affairs Marines, Marine Corps Community Services, or commanders designated as releasing authorities.


You are personally responsible for your actions. Ensure any Marine Corps content you post is accurate and appropriate.
Always remember that once content is posted, you lose control over it.  Many social media sites have policies that give them ownership of all content and information posted or stored on their systems. You may have posted it, but they own it.  What happens online stays online and is available to everyone, everywhere.
Always assume that all information you post or share will be made public.  Ensure that the information you are about to post is information that you want to be available forever to anyone.
Postings that are inflammatory, derogatory, threatening, etc. can be adjudicated under articles of the Uniformed Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). 


You must comply with regulations and policies such as personal standards of conduct, operations security (OPSEC), information assurance (IA), personally identifiable information (PII), joint ethics regulations, and the release of information to the public.
You must abide by certain restrictions and policies to ensure good order and discipline.
Don't use any words, logos, or other marks in your posts if it will infringe upon the trademark, service mark, certification mark, or other intellectual property rights of the owners.
If you violate federal law, regulations, or policies, you are subject to disciplinary action under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). 


You should not post any defamatory, libelous, vulgar, obscene, abusive, profane, threatening, racially or ethnically hateful, or otherwise offensive or illegal content.
Don't post offensive and inappropriate content that could bring discredit upon you, your unit, or the Marine Corps.
If you wouldn't say it to your grandmother, don't post it.
Remember, everything you post online has the potential to be seen by everyone—not  just friends and family.  Your private post can, and may, be shared with thousands of people and is nearly impossible to retract once posted. 


You should use a disclaimer such as: "the postings on this site are my own and don't represent the Marine Corps' positions or opinions."
If you make unofficial posts about the Marine Corps, you may identify yourself as a Marine by your rank, billet, military occupational specialty, and status (active or reserve).
If you decide not to identify your affiliation with the Corps, you should not disguise, impersonate, or otherwise misrepresent your identity.

 
You should talk about what you know best.  Only discuss matters of which you have direct knowledge.
Avoid speculation or hypothetical situations; do not comment on matters beyond your cognizance or responsibility ("Stay in your lane.").


Do not post any information that is classified (confidential, secret, top secret), controlled unclassified information (CUI), sensitive but unclassified (SBU), for official use only (FOUO), law enforcement sensitive (LES), sensitive homeland security information, security sensitive information (SSI), critical infrastructure information (CII), etc.
When in doubt, seek guidance from your chain of command.  Additional guidance is available from your unit operations officer, security manager, intelligence officer, foreign disclosure officer, or public affairs officer. 


Only make online connections with people you know well.  
Verify, through other channels, that a "friend" request was actually from your friend.
Sort "friends" into groups and set access permissions accordingly. Add "untrusted" people to the group with the lowest permissions and accesses. 


Remember to respond and act with your mind and not your emotions when posting content.
If you are uncertain about the need for or the appropriateness of a response, contact your chain of command or local public affairs office for guidance.
Let subject-matter experts respond to negative posts.  If you come across negative or disparaging posts about the Marine Corps, refer the posts or links to the conversation to your public affairs office.


Making sure that families are properly notified is the job of Casualty Assistance Calls Officers.  Let the professionals that the Marine Corps has assigned handle delivery of official notices.
Remember, once information is posted, it can spread extremely fast—to others, to strangers, and to the media. 


You may use the Eagle, Globe, and Anchor; coat of arms (EGA in the center, encircled with words "United States – Marine Corps"); and other symbols in unofficial posts as long as the symbols are used in a manner that does not bring discredit upon the Corps, does not result in personal financial gain, and does not give the impression of official or implied endorsement.
You should contact HQMC Division of Public Affairs Trademark and Licensing office for further clarification or contact your local legal office for an ethics determination prior to engaging in Internet activity that could violate the standards of conduct. 


If you witness or are subject to inappropriate online  conduct, report it to your Chain of Command, especially if you witness prohibited conduct. This sort of misconduct degrades trust within units and erodes combat readiness. Other resources include NCIS, Inspector General, Equal Opportunity Advisors, Victim Advocates, or Local Law Enforcement.
Should you wish to maintain privacy, you are encouraged to report the conduct to your chaplain, or a Victims Legal Counsel. Additionally, the Marine Corps DSTRESS Line 1-877-476-7734) provides anonymous phone and chat referral services, available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
For detailed guidance regarding appropriate and safe online behavior, Marines and leaders should visit http:(slash)(slash)www.marines.mil/News/Social-Media/ and review the material under "Social Media Guidelines." 


GUIDANCE FOR LEADERS AND SUBORDINATES
Just as Marine Corps leaders may interact and function in the local community alongside their Marines, similar conduct holds true for leaders interacting in the same social media spaces as their subordinates.  Leaders will set the tone for these communications by the way they handle the connections and interactions that take place. Simply put, online Marine Corps relationships should function in the same manner as any professional relationship would.
While viewing social media, if leaders come across evidence of a Marine violating policy or the UCMJ, they should respond in the same manner they would if they witnessed the infraction in any other environment.


GUIDELINES FOR POLITICAL ACTIVITIES
Marines are encouraged to carry out their obligations as citizens—this includes politics.  However, as a member of the Armed Forces there are limitations to your political activity.  The following are some of the guidelines for political activities taken from DoD Directive 1344.10 and "The Social Corps: The U.S.M.C. Social Media Principles."
You must adhere to policy in Department of Defense Directive 1344.10 when posting political content.
Don't express or imply Marine Corps endorsement of any opinions, products, or causes other than those already officially endorsed by the Marine Corps.
You can express your political views on public issues or political candidates online, but not as part of an organized communication campaign.
If your communication identifies you as a member of the Marine Corps, you must clearly state the opinions are yours and not that of the Corps.
You cannot solicit votes for or against a party, candidate, or cause.
You cannot participate in any interview or discussion as an advocate for or against a party, candidate, or cause.


OPERATIONS SECURITY
Operations security (OPSEC) measures are those measures taken to deny critical information about friendly forces to our adversaries.  Critical information includes specific facts about friendly intentions, capabilities, and activities needed by adversaries to plan and act effectively against friendly mission accomplishment.
All Marines are responsible for protecting critical information by practicing security at the source.
Security Measures:
- Never violate OPSEC by posting critical information that includes but is not limited to: tactics, troop movements, unit location, force size, force protection measures, specific numbers of equipment, and weapon system details.
- Turn off the global positioning system (GPS) function of your digital devices when deployed since photos and location-based social media applications can reveal your geographical location.  Also, check photos you intend to post for location indicators in the background or reflective surfaces.
- While deployed, don't report your specific location on social media since failure to do so could result in mission failure, harm to you or other Marines.
- Don't share information that is not approved for public release.  This includes memos, meeting notes, e-mails, message traffic, personnel lists, phone numbers, e-mail addresses, etc.
- Ensure family members understand the importance of protecting operations security when posting to social media sites.    


PERSONAL PRIVACY
Marines must be aware that criminals use the Internet to gain information for unethical reasons such as identity theft.  By piecing together information provided on different websites, criminals can use information to, among other things, impersonate Marines and steal passwords.
You should be extremely careful when disclosing personal details on the Internet.
Security Measures:
    Set the privacy settings on social media accounts to limit who will have access to your personal information.
    Don't post personally identifiable information (PII) such as social security number, home address, birthday, birth place, driver's license number, etc.
    Don't post sensitive, family-related information within your profile.
    Don't post information that would infringe upon the privacy of others.
    Keep your plans, schedules, and location information to yourself.
    Tell friends to be careful when posting photos and information about you and your family.


COMPUTER/NETWORK SECURITY
Criminals use the Internet to gain information for unscrupulous activities.  You should always be cautious and guard against cyber criminals and attackers by following sound security procedures.  
Security Measures:
    Always use strong passwords to protect your social media accounts.
    You should change your passwords frequently for added protection.  
    Review your social media accounts daily for possible use or changes by unauthorized users.
    Install and maintain current anti-virus, anti-malware, and anti-spyware software on your personal computers.
    Don't click on links, start downloads, or open e-mail attachments unless the source can be trusted.
    Beware of "app" or "plug-ins" written by unknown third parties since these may be used to access your data.
    Be watchful for scams online and avoid anything that doesn't look legitimate or just "shows up" out of context. If it sounds too good to be true—it probably is.


REFERENCES
The following references provide additional guidelines and information regarding making unofficial posts on social media, security measures to follow, and what types of political activities are okay and which are prohibited.  The references are also listed in the Lesson Resources tab on the menu.
    DoD 5500.07-R, Joint Ethics Regulation
    DoDD 1344.10, Political Activities by Members of the Armed Forces
    DoDI 1325.06, Handling Dissident and Protest Activities Among Members of the Armed Forces
    SECNAVINST 5211.5E, Department of the Navy Privacy Program
    MCO 3070.2A, Marine Corps Operations Security (OPSEC) Program
    MCO 5230.18, Clearance of DoD Information for Public Release
    MCO 5239.2A, Marine Corps Cybersecurity Program (MCCSP)
    MCO 5720.77, Marine Corps Public Affairs (PA) Order
    MARADMIN 181/10, Responsible and Effective Use of Internet-Based Capabilities
    ALMAR 008/17, Social Media Guidance – Unofficial Internet Posts
    "The Social Corps: The U.S.M.C. Social Media Principles"
    "Social Media Guidance for Unofficial Internet Posts"


This lesson covered the following educational objectives:
    Recognize the characteristics and basic forms of social media.
    Identify the guidelines for making unofficial posts on social media sites.
    Identify the guidelines for political activities by members of the Armed Forces.
    Recognize security measures to take when using social media sites.


